
#### &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp; ﻿&nbsp; Individual Capstone Essay
#### &emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp;&emsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; By Brad Didier

&emsp;&emsp;For my senior design project, my group has decided to develop a web application with the primary aim of boosting productivity and task management. For a start, the group has decided that the core functionality of the app will revolve around enabling users to create and manage to-do lists. However, we want to gamify the application by, for starters, implementing some sort of point-based reward system, perhaps. This will provide users with a sense of accomplishment and extra motivation, which we identified as weaknesses in current productivity solutions. We may also experiment with the idea of using those points to unlock rewards, perhaps extra color themes or something similar within the application. My senior project combines task management and gamification to create an engaging productivity tool that encourages its users to stay motivated when performing their tasks.

&emsp;&emsp;One of the courses that will be the biggest guide for me as I work on this project is Cloud Computing (CS 5165). During this course I gained experience in developing and deploying minor web applications using Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services, and Google Cloud cloud infrastructure services. This course was also my first exposure to using ReactJS to create a website front-end, a skill which I have gained more experience with since and that I expect will be useful for this project. I also gained experience as a full-stack developer as well during this course, as the projects often needed to store information in a back-end database. Another course that will be helpful for me as I go through this project will be Programming Languages (CS 3003). This course strengthened my general skills as a developer and enhanced my knowledge of different languages and their capabilities, which I’m sure will be useful for this task.

&emsp;&emsp;My co-op experiences will be even more critical to this senior project, I believe. I worked as a “Digital Ecosystem Developer” for two co-op terms at a medical device manufacturer called Midmark. There I was a full stack developer and worked with a team as we created an online portal Midmark’s customers can go to to manage their cloud-connected medical devices. Technically, my work involved front-end work creating web pages using ReactJS, while I also did a lot of work in C# with the APIs that supported my department’s infrastructure. On top of this, I also became better at working in a team and pair-programming, as I had many work sessions with other developers on my team. I believe all of these skills learned during those co-op terms will serve as an excellent guide as I develop this new project.

&emsp;&emsp;Participating in this project should be an exciting and motivating opportunity for several reasons. Firstly, I am excited to make and contribute to something of this scale and to have a product at the end that my team and I can say is all our own. Secondly, as someone who sometimes struggles with maintaining productivity throughout my professional works, a productivity tool that offers a genuine rewarding experience to the user is something that sounds amazing to me and is something that I believe I would use. Finally, this project will be a good test of my skills as a developer, for while it contains some aspects that I have familiarity with, there are some aspects that I do not, such as the implementation of a points system and the logic associated with managing those and the user accounts they are tied to. For a preliminary approach, my hope is to first tackle the bare functionality of the application before going further and adding extra functionality that sets the product apart. From a technical perspective, we will perhaps use something like ReactJS for a front-end, with it being supported by a back-end framework like Node.js as well as a database to store user data such as tasks and rewards points.

&emsp;&emsp;Once this project is completed, my highest priority result will be that we have created a functional web application that offers a unique and productivity enhancing service. Our product will have a well-designed UI that is intuitive and visually pleasing and there will be a successful integration of gamification elements present that will distinguish it from similar products. If we meet these goals, we will have accomplished the task of creating a compelling productivity tool using the skills we have built up over the years. To determine if we meet those goals, we will likely conduct tests with different users and garner feedback from their experiences as we progress through development and at the end. I will also need to reflect on my own individual contributions to the project, which I hope my group can help me on by providing personal feedback towards my strengths and weaknesses as we go through this experience together. Through these methods I hope to have confidence in not just the product created but also my ability to contribute and work in a team of developers.
